# Direct_Digital_Synthesizer_RTL_and_Scripts
This repository includes the VHDL code for an implementation of a DDS chip, that generates sine, cosine, square, triangle and sawtooth waves.

Folder "rtl": Contains VHDL code for DDS
1) direct_digital_synthsizer_top.vhd : Top module
2) phase_accumulator.vhd : Module generating phase based on tuning word and the clock
3) waves_samples_generator.vhd : Module generating the wave amplitude values. Truncates the phase for the pahse accumulator, includes the memeory with samples of a sine wave and the logic for creating waves based on the counter (PA)
4) rom_sync.vhd : A standarc ROM memory
5) rom_types_pkg.vhd : A VHDL package where the ROM type is defined
6) sine_table_pkg.sv : A table that holds the sine wave samples. It is generated by the script "generate_sine_wabes_samples.py"
7) testbench.vhd : A standard testbench simulating the behavior of the DDS. It also generates in the folder of the Modelsim project, a "dds_samples.txt" file,        with the values of the output port of the DDS chip. This are later used by the "rom_data_to_pwl_for_spice.py" script

Folder "scripts": Contains Python scripts used for automating proccess during the generation of the code and for calculating errors
1) generate_sine_wave_samples.py : Creates the "sine_table_package.vhd", which is a VDHL table of values. The inputs for the scirpt are:
   -a : address width : It is the address width of the ROM. So if the MSB bits used from the pahse after phase truncation are P, the -a argument should begiven       that value. Internaly the script generates a table with 1/4 of the sine wave (becuse of its symmetric nature) so the table has an address of "P-2", since the 2    MSBs are used for quadrant selection.
   -d : data width: The width of the memory
   -o : output directory : Where the sine table will be saved
   Run command example: $ python3 generate_sine_wave_samples.py -a 12 -d 12 - o .

2) quantization_error_calc.py : Calculates the quantization error. Creates an ideal sine wave and for various quantization bits, it calculates MSE and SNAR. SNR      is calculated both theoretically (theoretical_snr =  6.02 * A + 1.76) and by comaparing the power of the ideal and quantized singal
   Run command example: $ python3 quantization_error_calc.py

3) phase_truncation_error_calc.py :  Calculates the phase truncation error. It generates an ideal DDS with no truncation and one with truncation of a few bit         values (8,10,12,14,16,18,26,28 MSBS truncated. Compares them by calculating SFDR and MSE/RMS. Generates plots of the values

4) rom_data_to_pwl_for_spice.py : Takes as input the "dds_samples.txt" file generated by the testbench (should be copied in the directory this script is located      and run) and generates a pwl file (two columna with time and output value) that can be used in LTSPICE for simulating the digital part of the deisgn

5) sampling_error_calc.py : Calculates the sampling error for fclk = 100MHz and for several fout values (Number of samples is equal to fclk/fout) or sample number. So two tables are extracted. It creates an ideal sine wave and a sampled one and calculates SFDR and MSE

